Welcome back.
What is a data structure a data structure is a collection of values the values can have relationships
among them and they can have functions applied to them.
Each one is different in what it can do and what it is best used for most important thing to take away
is that each data structure is good and is specialized for its own thing.
All right Andre you just said a bunch of words and I don't really understand.
Well let's show you a couple of images to simplify this you see.
You can think of data structures as any sort of compartment or container a data structure is simply
a file cabinet of different types.
You have a backpack a place where you put maybe your school books you have drawers where you put your
clothes fridge where you put your food a folder for your files and a packing box maybe for your toys
each one of these containers are useful for it's own thing.
For example I'm not going to put my food in a drawer over here because that yogurt is going to go bad
here likewise I'm not going to put all my papers and files in my backpack or perhaps a toy box because
it's just going to get crumpled up.
Each one of these containers are specific for it's own thing and that's what data structure really is.
It's a way for us to organize data so that we can go into the backpack and retrieve that data really
easily.
We can go into the fridge and grab that popsicle or ice cream really fast.
We can put things in data structures and we can take things from data structures and that's all it really
is and there are a ton of data structures just like in our real life how we have all these containers
hold these places to put things in in programming we have a ton of them if we go to Wikipedia for example
well if we scroll through here we see a ton of data structures and this is going to look overwhelming
but don't worry most of these well I've never encountered myself and they're very very specific.
You probably only have about five or six data structures that are really really important that we're
going to go over.
You may have even heard of Bitcoin and how it uses block chain technology this magical word well block
chain at the end of the day is simply a data structure a way to hold information
so in our programming world data structures we can store things like numbers strings boolean types just
like we saw when we coded in javascript with arrays and objects arrays and objects in javascript are
each a form of a data structure that allows us to store information you see as humans.
This is what we do on Earth right.
We take the chaos and the disorder and make order out of it.
At least we try to we organize our farms to produce food.
We package the food and we deliver them to the grocery stores and organize them in the grocery store
so that humans can grab those and can then purchase these groceries and give money to put in a compartment
and a bank.
That's what programs are.
We're modeling real life scenarios and the more advanced a developer you become the more time you'll
start thinking and spending time talking about data structures.
This is why interviewers love to talk about data structures now as I always like to mention there are
always tradeoffs.
Every programming question has a tradeoff.
Remember our three pillars of readability memory and speed.
When we talked about what code is best.
Well we have the same thing with data structures.
One is better than the other in some aspects and the other better than the other.
That's why they exist.
Each one for its own specific case and there are two parts to understanding data structures.
One is how to actually build one.
How can we build with code.
Some of these data structures and two is how to use them.
How to use these data structures.
We're gonna do both of these in this course but the second point is the most important right because
data structures are usually just tools and most of the time they're already pre-built.
For us the most important part is how to use them when to use one over the other.
And we kind of saw a little bit of that in the previous section when we talked about how to solve problems
where we used an object versus an array to make our code more efficient.
The goal in this course is to understand data structure so that you can pick the right data structure
for your problem.
Based on different scenarios data needs to be stored in a specific format.
We have a handful of data structures that cover our need to store data in different formats so let's
get a little bit deeper into this topic.